docs/src/content/docs/utilities/Gesture/gesture.mdx, before:

---
title: Gesture
description: ngxtension/gestures
badge: stable
entryPoint: gestures
contributors: ['chau-tran']
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Usage

There are various ways we can utilize the Gesture from `ngxtension/gestures`

The examples show using `NgxDrag`, for `DragGesture`, but they can apply to other gestures as well.

### Directive

```ts
import { NgxDrag, type NgxInjectDrag } from 'ngxtension/gestures';
```

`NgxDrag` is a directive that we can use to attach on any element to capture that element's drag events.

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="html">

```html
<div class="draggable-box" (ngxDrag)="onDrag($event)">
	<!-- content -->
</div>
```

  </TabItem>
	<TabItem label="ts">

```ts
@Component({
	imports: [NgxDrag],
	templateUrl: './app.html',
})
export class App {
	onDrag(state: NgxInjectDrag['state']) {
		// fire every time a drag event happens
	}
}
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### As `hostDirective`

We can also use `NgxDrag` on a Host element by leveraging `hostDirectives`

```ts
@Component({
	selector: 'app-draggable-box',
	standalone: true,
	hostDirectives: [{ directive: NgxDrag, outputs: ['ngxDrag'] }],
	template: ``,
})
export class DraggableBox {
	@HostListener('ngxDrag', ['$event'])
	onDrag(state: NgxInjectDrag['state']) {
		// fire every time a drag event happens
	}
}
```

### `injectDrag`

Another way of enabling Drag Gesture is to use the CIF `injectDrag`.

```ts
@Component({
	selector: 'app-draggable-box',
	standalone: true,
	template: ``,
})
export class DraggableBox {
	constructor() {
		injectDrag((state) => {
			// fire every time a drag event happens
		});
	}
}
```

With that in mind, the true power of `injectDrag` is the ease of composing different behaviors on top of Drag Gesture. For example, we can have a CIF
that both enables Drag Gesture and returns a `Signal<Vector2>` that can trigger other effects.

```ts
export function injectDragPosition() {
	const position = signal<Vector2>([0, 0]);

	injectDrag(({ offset }) => {
		position.set(offset);
	});

	return position.asReadonly();
}
```

## Configuration

- For `NgxDrag`, we can provide a config object via `[ngxDragConfig]` Input.
- For `injectDrag`, we can provide a config `Signal<DragConfig>` (or a `Function` that returns `DragConfig`) in the 2nd argument
  ```ts
  injectDrag(dragHandler, {
  	config: () => dragConfig,
  });
  ```

## Zone

Drag Gesture is enabled inside of Zone by default.

- For `NgxDrag`, we can go into zoneless mode via `[ngxDragZoneless]` Input.
- For `injectDrag`, we can go into zoneless mode via `zoneless` option in the 2nd argument
  ```ts
  injectDrag(dragHandler, { zoneless: true });
  ```

### Global Zoneless

Additionally, we can allow all gestures in a certain component tree to automatically opt-in to zoneless mode by calling `provideZonelessGesture()`

```ts
// application wise
bootstrapApplication(App, { providers: [provideZonelessGesture()] });

// route provider
const routes = [
	{
		path: '',
		providers: [provideZonelessGesture()],
	},
];

// component provider
@Component({
	providers: [provideZonelessGesture()],
})
export class MyComponent {}
```

Commit message:

fix: make @use-gesture/vanilla optional dependency (#349)

docs/src/content/docs/utilities/Gesture/gesture.mdx, after:

---
title: Gesture
description: ngxtension/gestures
badge: stable
entryPoint: gestures
contributors: ['chau-tran']
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Usage

First you need to install the package

```bash
npm i @use-gesture/vanilla
```

There are various ways we can utilize the Gesture from `ngxtension/gestures`

The examples show using `NgxDrag`, for `DragGesture`, but they can apply to other gestures as well.

### Directive

```ts
import { NgxDrag, type NgxInjectDrag } from 'ngxtension/gestures';
```

`NgxDrag` is a directive that we can use to attach on any element to capture that element's drag events.

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="html">

```html
<div class="draggable-box" (ngxDrag)="onDrag($event)">
	<!-- content -->
</div>
```

  </TabItem>
	<TabItem label="ts">

```ts
@Component({
	imports: [NgxDrag],
	templateUrl: './app.html',
})
export class App {
	onDrag(state: NgxInjectDrag['state']) {
		// fire every time a drag event happens
	}
}
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### As `hostDirective`

We can also use `NgxDrag` on a Host element by leveraging `hostDirectives`

```ts
@Component({
	selector: 'app-draggable-box',
	standalone: true,
	hostDirectives: [{ directive: NgxDrag, outputs: ['ngxDrag'] }],
	template: ``,
})
export class DraggableBox {
	@HostListener('ngxDrag', ['$event'])
	onDrag(state: NgxInjectDrag['state']) {
		// fire every time a drag event happens
	}
}
```

### `injectDrag`

Another way of enabling Drag Gesture is to use the CIF `injectDrag`.

```ts
@Component({
	selector: 'app-draggable-box',
	standalone: true,
	template: ``,
})
export class DraggableBox {
	constructor() {
		injectDrag((state) => {
			// fire every time a drag event happens
		});
	}
}
```

With that in mind, the true power of `injectDrag` is the ease of composing different behaviors on top of Drag Gesture. For example, we can have a CIF
that both enables Drag Gesture and returns a `Signal<Vector2>` that can trigger other effects.

```ts
export function injectDragPosition() {
	const position = signal<Vector2>([0, 0]);

	injectDrag(({ offset }) => {
		position.set(offset);
	});

	return position.asReadonly();
}
```

## Configuration

- For `NgxDrag`, we can provide a config object via `[ngxDragConfig]` Input.
- For `injectDrag`, we can provide a config `Signal<DragConfig>` (or a `Function` that returns `DragConfig`) in the 2nd argument
  ```ts
  injectDrag(dragHandler, {
  	config: () => dragConfig,
  });
  ```

## Zone

Drag Gesture is enabled inside of Zone by default.

- For `NgxDrag`, we can go into zoneless mode via `[ngxDragZoneless]` Input.
- For `injectDrag`, we can go into zoneless mode via `zoneless` option in the 2nd argument
  ```ts
  injectDrag(dragHandler, { zoneless: true });
  ```

### Global Zoneless

Additionally, we can allow all gestures in a certain component tree to automatically opt-in to zoneless mode by calling `provideZonelessGesture()`

```ts
// application wise
bootstrapApplication(App, { providers: [provideZonelessGesture()] });

// route provider
const routes = [
	{
		path: '',
		providers: [provideZonelessGesture()],
	},
];

// component provider
@Component({
	providers: [provideZonelessGesture()],
})
export class MyComponent {}
```
